hey guys James here today and welcome it
to another episode of Sims 3 101 now in
the last episode we talked about roofing
and that was like basically the
beginner's guide to roofing now we're
going to continue that on and we're
going to do a beginner's guide to
building and this is going to be so this
is going to go in conjunction with the
roofing and all that kind of stuff it's
going to be basically how to start
building a house the pretty much the way
I always do it is either with a
rectangle or a wall basically anyway so
we've got a house we're going to go turn
off auto roof because we don't want that
we know how to roof now so that's good
and this this episode isn't going to be
so much on building it's going to be on
like tips on building so this episode
were gonna be talking about symmetry and
why you don't want to do it so if I did
something like this and this is my house
so let's just say we bring it back over
here we join these two walls go down a
level
oops got about it building there we go
so we got these two little rooms and say
I were to do something like this so the
other side is 5 this is 5 as well now
this is exactly symmetrical and I'm
going to be honest houses in real life
generally are not symmetrical at all I
mean sure it does happen but that's
going to be a very purposeful act it
doesn't doesn't happen because usually
in real life you'll find a house maybe
it's like 50 years old and it's been
renovated and updated and all that stuff
and over time it's had a lot of add-ons
and changes and and even new houses they
aren't designed symmetrically that's not
how house designs work so if you if you
notice yourself starting to build
something symmetrical say then it ends
up even more symmetrical they're doing
some other there so you just like oh
yeah we'll just go like this like first
of all this looks like a frickin school
building or something because it's like
I don't know like a hospital something
cuz it's all symmetrical instead that's
that's not how a home feels so you
really want to avoid doing anything
symmetrical this even includes on the
interior so let's just pretend for a
moment the the exterior isn't
symmetrical at all and I was just
building the inside so we have a hallway
here and they were like oh we could do a
room here and then I guess we can do it
here as well and and we can do this and
we do the same over the other side and
look some symmetry just doesn't work if
you're trying to build a house it's as
simple as that really you want to avoid
it as much as you can so say we have
something like this I mean something as
simple as just grabbing our wall moving
it back even back like this so steps
backwards but if you got to do like a
stepping thing like this you kind of
want to make this parts more like is so
we'll bring it into there probably and
just play around with the shape so like
if we bring this back in there like that
that definitely looks better than I did
before I mean granted it's a weird shape
but it's no longer symmetrical at all so
let's just say we want to roof it and if
you want to learn how to do quick
roofing tips and tricks and I suggest
checking out the other video I'm so
going to join that there and I'm going
to join it with this like see so we have
that little house here now and it's not
symmetrical and but we have a roof
glitch with whatever reason I don't know
why but that's what happens oh that's
roofing for you
is it going to do it again yes it is so
we'll ignore that for now we'll do it a
different way we're going to go like
this and we're going to bring it down
anyway so you so you can just ignore the
roofing but my point here is that the
house is no longer symmetrical and it
looks a lot better than it would have
done if it was symmetrical so we're
going to do the same thing now we're
going to make it symmetrical again and
I'll show you what it looks like if we
were to do it with a symmetrical shape
and do the roof the same and all of that
kind of stuff it just it just looks
uninspired it doesn't look like this had
time and thought put into it I just
looks like it's been thrown together so
we'll bring that down and there you go
that like that that doesn't look like a
house I mean it's it's - it it's no
that's I don't know I can't even explain
where I'm trying to go with it I mean
this is a freaking 4 minute video on me
saying don't do a symmetrical house and
and yeah basically if you end up with
something like this by accident it
happens like I've built symmetrical
house by act and I'm I don't god I don't
mean to do that just play around with
the shapes like the easiest way is just
to click and drag walls like if you
don't want to actually destroy walls
just click and drag them and see what
happens so we can go back to the similar
shape we kind of had before this wood
back over here and this wood back
and one can do you can do stuff like
that or I don't know just just play
around with the walls all that kind of
stuff we'll go into more building tips
and tricks in upcoming videos as well
but yeah that's pretty much it for now
the tip was to avoid symmetry play
around with the walls also keep in mind
the roof the shape that the roof is
going to be if it's going to work with
your house and that kind of thing but
anyways guys thanks for watching I hope
this helped even a little it's just a
small little tip that I thought could be
very helpful and it's just that one it's
just those little tips that really can
help turn your lot around I make it look
completely different and completely
unique anyways guys thanks for watching
and I'll see you next time